---
title: How to Mount NFS share on Debian 
date: 2022-06-01
categories: [share NFS Networking] 
tags: [nfs,server,debian]            # TAG names should always be be lowercase and seperated by a commma
---

This page has been originally created by "Karim Buzdar" found on "Linuxhint-How to Mount NFS share on Debian 10(https://linuxhint.com/mount_nfs_share_debian)". I want to thank him for the contribution.

# How to Mount NFS share on Debian

The network file system NFS is an efficient way of sharing files and directories to other machines in a network. It is based on client-server architecture, where the server directory is mounted onto client systems. NFS allows clients to access shared directories as if they are a part of their own system, and remains a popular way of sharing files among Linux systems.

In this article, we will mount a NFS share on a Debian client machine manually, as well as automatically, upon system boot.

We will use Debian system to run the commands and procedures discussed in this article.

## Pre-Requisites

Before proceeding, be sure that:

* NFS server is installed and running on the remote machine
* NFS shared directory on the remote server is exported
* Firewall is allowing access to NFS clients

## Install NFS Client Package on Debian Client Machine

To mount share directories on the client machine, you must first install the NFS client package on it. On the client machine, run the following commands in the Terminal to install the NFS client package:

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install nfs-common
```

## 1: Create a Mount Point for the NFS Server’s Shared Directory

To make the NFS server’s shared directory available to the client, you will need to mount the NFS server’s directory on an empty directory on the client machine.

First, create an empty mount point directory on the client machine. This empty directory will serve as the mount point for the remote shared directories.

We have created the new mount directory “client_sharedfolder” under the /mnt directory using the following command:

```
sudo mkdir -p /mnt/client_sharedfolder
```

## 2: Mount the NFS Server Shared Directory on the Client

Mount the NFS shared directory to the mount point directory on the client using the following syntax:

```bash
sudo mount [NFS _IP]:/[NFS_export] [Local_mountpoint]
```

Where:

* **NFS_IP** is the NFS server’s IP address
* **NFS_export** is the shared directory on the NFS server
* **Local_mountpoint** is the mount point directory on the client’s system

Based on our setup, we ran the following command:

```bash
sudo mount ip-address:/mnt/sharedfolder /mnt/client_sharedfolder
```

After mounting the NFS shared directory, you can confirm it using the following command in the Terminal:

```bash
df -h
```

## 3: Test NFS share

Next, test the NFS share on the client machine. To perform a test create some files or directories under the NFS shared directory on the server machine and then access them from the client machine. Follow the procedure below to do this yourself:

1. On the **NFS server** machine, open the Terminal and use the cd command to navigate to the NFS shared directory:
   
   ```bash
   cd /mnt/sharedfolder/
   ```
   
   Create some test files:
   
   ```bash
   touch test1 test2 test3
   ```

2. On the NFS client machine, verify whether the same files exist in the local mount point directory.
   
   ```bash
   ls /mnt/client_sharedfolder
   ```

*Note that the mount command does not permanently mount the NFS file system on the mount point. You will have to mount it manually every time you reboot the system. In the next step, we will look at how to automatically mount the NFS file system at boot time.*

## Mounting an NFS File System Automatically

Automatically mounting an NFS file system saves you the trouble of having to manually mount the file system each time you boot your system. Below is the procedure to do so:

Edit the `/etc/fstab` file:

Next, add an entry in the /etc/fstab file, as follows:

NFS server:directory mountpoint nfs defaults 0 0

Where:

* **NFS server** is the IP address of the NFS server
* **directory** is the shared directory on the NFS server
* **mountpoint** is the mount point on the NFS client’s machine
* **nfs** defines the file system type

Based on our setup, we have added the following entry:

```bash
ip-address:/mnt/sharedfolder /mnt/client_sharedfolder nfs defaults 0 0
```

After adding the above entry in the `/etc/fstab file`, save and exit the file by **Ctrl + o** and **Ctrl + x**, respectively.

The NFS share will be mounted automatically at the specified mount point the next time you boot your system.

## Unmounting an NFS File System

You can easily unmount the NFS shared directory from your system if you no longer need it. To do so, type umount, followed by the name of the mount point, as follows:

```bash
sudo umount [mount_point]
```

Based on our setup, it would be:

```bash
umount /mnt/client_sharedfolder
```

*Note: The command is umount, not unmount (there is no “n” present in the command).*

Keep in mind that if you have added the entry in the `/etc/fstab` file for mounting the NFS, it will be automatically mounted again the next time you boot your system. If you want to prevent it from automatically mounting on the next boot, remove the entry from the `/etc/fstab` file.

Remember that if the NFS file system is busy, you cannot unmount it, such as if any files are opened on it or you are working on some directory.